invocation
OPEN, O Lord, my lips to praise Thy holy Name : cleanse also my heart from vain, evil, and wandering thoughts ; enlighten my understanding, and kindle my affection ; that I may be meet to be heard before the presence of Thy Divine Majesty ; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

chapter at prime. always end with DEO gratias.
Sunday/festival: 1 Timothy 1:17
lesser festival, ferias in Xmas and Easter: Isaiah 33:2
ferias: zechariah 8:19-20

chapter at terce.
s: the grace
fer: Jeremiah 17:14

chapter at noon
s: 1 John 5:7
fer: 1 Thessalonians 5:21-22

chapter at none
s: Eph. iv. 5, 6
fer: Gal. vi. 2

replacement for collect for grace on Sundays and festivals
SATISFY us with Thy mercy, O Lord, at the beginning of this day ; that in our fulness of joy all the day long we may find a true delight in singing Thy praises ; though Thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

extra prayers after Prime
O EVERLASTING Jesus, Who in the early morning didst give Thy self to be reviled and scoffed at by Thine enemies ; Visit us, we pray Thee, at this hour with Thy grace and mercy ; that so throughout the day we may find peace and joy in all that ministers to Thy praise and glory ; 
Who livest and reignest with the Father and the Holy Spirit, ever one God, world without end. Amen. 
VOUCHSAFE, we be seech Thee, merciful Lord, to prosper with Thy blessing this Parish (or Col lege), and grant that those who serve Thee therein may set Thy holy will ever before them, and do that which is well pleasing in Thy sight, and persevere in Thy service unto the end ; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. 
LET Thy merciful ears, O Lord our God, be open to the prayers of Thy saints and servants ; that so by Thy gracious- and ready help, we may in the end attain unto everlasting salva tion ; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. 
O ALMIGHTY Lord, and everlasting God, vouchsafe, we beseech Thee, to direct, sanctify, and govern both our hearts and bodies, in the ways of Thy laws, and in the works of Thy com mandments ; that through Thy most mighty protec tion, both here and ever, we may be preserved in body and soul ; through our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. Amen.

extras after terce
Ant. He is brought : as a lamb to the slaughter, and, as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so He openeth not His mouth. 
y. It was the third hour ; 
R7. And they crucified Him. 
Let us pray. 
OLORD Jesus Christ, Son of the living God, Who at the third hour of the day wast led forth to the pain of the Cross for the salvation of the world ; We humbly beseech Thee, that by the virtue of Thy most sacred Passion Thou wouldest blot out all our sins, and merci fully bring us to the glory of Thy blessedness ; Who livest and reignest God world with out end. Amen. (Saruni Encheiridion. ) Ant. I will pour out : 
My Spirit upon all flesh. 
^. The love of God is shed abroad in our hearts ; 
R7. By the Holy Ghost, Which is given unto us.
Let us pray. 
GOD.AlmightyFather, we humbly beseech Thy Divine Majesty, that, as Thou didst strengthen Thine Apostles at the third hour, by the visitation of Thy Holy Spirit, so Thou wilt deign to enlighten and guard our hearts and bodies by His coming ; through the merits of Jesus Christ our Saviour. 
Amen. (Ambrosian.) Ant. Woe is me : for I am undone ; for mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. 
"f. Lo, this hath touched thy lips ; 
1^7. And thy sin is purged. 
Let us pray. 
OTHOU Good Shep herd, Who didst lay down Thy life for Thy sheep, and Who dost ever nourish them with the spiritual food of Thy most precious Body and Blood ; We pray Thee to quicken with Thy divine charity the hearts of those whom Thou dost choose to be pastors of Thy flock, that they may resolve gladly to spend whatsoever Thou hast given them in ministering to the salvation of Thine elect servants, and to Thine own eternal praise and glory ; 
Who, with the Father and the Holy Ghost, livest and reignest, ever one God, world without end. Amen. 
OGOD, Who makest Thine angels spirits, and Thy ministers a flame of fire ; Vouchsafe, we beseech Thee, to stir up and confirm the sacred grace of Orders in all stewards of Thy mysteries ; 
that as ministering spirits they may gather out of Thy Kingdom all things that offend, and may kindle in the hearts of all that fire which Thou earnest to send upon the earth ; Who, with the Father and the Holy Ghost, livest and reignest, ever one God, world without end. Amen. 
Ant. Jerusalem is built : 
as a city, that is at unity in itself. 
"ft. O pray for the peace of Jerusalem ; 
fy. They shall prosper that love thee.
Let us pray. 
VOUCHSAFE, we be seech Thee, Almighty God, to grant to the whole Christian people unity, peace, and true concord, both visible and invisible ; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. 
OLORD Jesu Christ, Who saiclst to Thine Apostles, Peace I leave with you, My peace I give unto you ; Regard not our sins, but the faith of Thy Church, and grant her that peace and unity which is agreeable to Thy will ; Who livest and reignest God for ever and ever. Amen. 
f. The Lord be with you ; 
R7. And with thy spirit. 
y. Let us bless the Lord ; 
R7. Thanks be to God.

after noon
Ant, I, if I be lifted up : 
will draw all men unto Me. 
y. Lord, remember me ; 
R/. When Thou comest into Thy kingdom. 
Let us pray. 
OMOST gracious Jesus, our Lord and our God, Who, as at this hour, didst bear our sins in Thine own Body on the tree, that we being dead unto sin might live unto righteousness; Have mercy upon us, we beseech Thee, both now and at the hour of our death ; and grant unto us, Thy humble servants, with all other Christian peo ple who have this Thy blessed Passion in devout remem brance, a godly and peaceful life in this present world, and through Thy grace eternal glory in the life to come ; 
where, with the Father and the Holy Ghost, Thou livest and reignest, ever one God, world without end. Amen.

For the Bishop. 
Ant. Thy children : shall be princes in all lands. 
f. Behold, O God, our defender ; 
R/. And look upon the face of Thine anointed. 
Let us pray. 
OGOD, the Pastor and Ruler of Thy faithful servants, look down in mercy upon Thy servant A^ our Bishop, to whom Thou hast given charge over this diocese, and evermore guide, defend, comfort, sanctify, and save him ; and grant him by Thy grace so to advance in word and good example, that he, with the flock committed to him, may attain to everlasting life ; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. 
For clergy and people. 
Ant. How beautiful: 
upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace. 
f. Let Thy priests be clothed with righteousness ; 
R/. And Thy saints sing with joy fulness.
Let us pray. 
ALMIGHTY and ever- f\ lasting God, Who alone workest great mar vels : Send down upon the clergy of this diocese, and all congregations committed to their charge, the health ful Spirit of Thy grace ; 
and, that they may truly please Thee, pour upon them the continual dew of Thy blessing ; Grant this, O Lord, for the honour of our Ad vocate and Mediator Jesus Christ. Amen. 
For a Theological College. 
Ant. I will not : leave thee until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of. 
y. Except the Lord build the house ; 
R/. Their labour is but lost that build it. 
Let us pray. 
VOUCHSAFE, O merci ful Jesus, to direct and prosper all that is designed and done for the welfare of Thy servants in this College ; 
and grant that all who dwell therein may work together for the good of each other, to Thy honour and glory. 
Amen. 
OTIIOU true Light, that lightest every man that cometh into the world, do Thou in Thy mercy touch the hearts and lighten the under standings of all who are here gathered together to prepare for Thy service, that they may readily acknowledge and cheerfully obey all that Thou wouldest have them believe and practise, to the benefit of Thy holy Church and their own salvation. 
Amen. 
~T)EMEMBER,O gracious JLv Lord, for good all who have left us to minister in Thy kingdom ; pour out up on them evermore Thy Holy Spirit to strengthen, deepen, chasten, purify them ; that, giving themselves up to Thy service, they may do and suffer all that Thou wiliest, and finally may reign with Thee in life everlasting. 
Amen. 
AJD pardon, O Lord, through the virtue of Thy most precious Blood, the sins and infirmities of those whom Thou hast set to bear rule in thisCollege ; that in all things they may labour for the advancement of Thy kingdom, and the glory of Thy holy Name ; Who with the Father and the Holy Ghost livest and reignest, one God, world without end. 
Amen. 
WE pray Thee also to bless all those whom Thou hast called from bearing office or teaching in this College to labour in other parts of Thy vineyard. For give them their sins, and strengthen them with Thy Holy Spirit, that they may build up Thy Church, guide wanderers into the way of truth, and convert sinners unto Thee ; Who art blessed, and dost live and govern all things, world without end. 
Amen. 
WE commend unto Thy mercy, O Lord, N. 
our founder, and all other Thy servants (members of this College), who are departed hence from us with the sign of faith, and now do rest in the sleep of peace. Grant them, we beseech Thee, Thy mercy and everlasting peace, and that in the day of the general resurrection, we, and all they that be of the mystical Body of Thy Son, may to gether be set on His right hand, and hear that His most joyful voice : Come unto Me, O ye that be blessed of My Father, and possess the kingdom which is prepared for you from the beginning of the world. Grant this, O Father, for Jesus Christ's sake, our only Mediator and Advocate. Amen. 
For the parish. 
Ant. I will pour water : 
upon him that is thirsty, and floods upon the dry ground ; 
I will pour My Spirit upon thy seed and My blessing upon thine offspring. 
"f. TurnTheeagain,Thou God of hosts ; 
R?. Look down from heaven, behold and visit this vine. 
Let us pray. 
ALMIGHTY and everlast- £\. ing God, Who dost govern all things in heaven and earth ; Mercifully hear the supplications of us Thy servants, and grant unto this parish {and . . . ] all things that are needful for its spiri tual welfare [schools wherein to bring up the young in Thy faith and fear ; ministers to labour in this portion of Thy vineyard ; a church complete in the beauty of holiness]. 
Strengthen and confirm the faithful ; protect and guide the children ; visit and re lieve the sick and afflicted ; 
turn and soften the wicked ; 
rouse the careless ; recover the fallen ; restore the peni tent ; remove all hindrances to the advancement of Thy truth ; and bring all to be of one heart and mind within the fold of Thy holy Church, tothehonourandgloryof Thy blessed Son. Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. 
For the conversion of sinners. 
Ant. Turn us : O God, our Saviour, and let Thine anger cease from us. 
"p. O let the wickedness of the ungodly come to an end ; 
R?. But guide Thou the just. 
Let us pray. 
ALMIGHTY God, we /\. beseech Thee to hear our prayers for such as sin against Thee, or neglect to serve Thee ; that Thou wouldest vouchsafe to bestow upon them true repentance, and an earnest longing for Thy service ; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. 
y. The Lord be with you ; 
R?. And with thy spirit. 
J. Let us bless the Lord ; 
ty. Thanks be to God.

after none
Ant. When He suffered : 
He threatened not ; but com mitted Himself to Him that judgeth righteously. 
y. Even there shall Thy hand lead me ; 
R;. And Thy right hand shall hold me. 
Let us pray. 
HEAR us, O merciful Lord Jesu Christ, and remember now the hour in which Thou didst commend Thy blessed Spirit into the hands of Thy heavenly Father ; and so assist us by thisThy most precious death, that, being dead unto the world, we may live only unto Thee, and that at the hour of our departing from this mortal life we may be re ceived into Thine everlasting kingdom, there to reign with Thee, world without end. 
Amen. 
OLORD Jesu Christ, Son of the living God, we pray Thee to set Thy Passion, Cross, and Death between Thy judgement and our souls, now and in the hour of our death. Vouch safe to grant mercy and grace to the living, rest to the dead, to Thy holy Church peace and concord, and to us sinners everlasting life and glory ; 
Who with the Father and the Holy Ghost livest and reignest God, world without end. Amen. 
O GRACIOUS Lord Jesus, Who didst vouch safe to die upon the Cross for us ; Remember, we be seech Thee, all sick and dying persons, and grant that they may omit nothing which is necessary to make their peace with Thee before they die. Deliver them, O Lord, from the malice of the devil, and from all sin and evil, and grant them a happy end ; for Thy loving mercy's sake. 
Amen. 
Ant. Thy God : hath sent forth strength for thee ; 
stablish the thing, O God, that Thou hast wrought in us. 
ifl. They will go from strength to strength ; 
R7. And unto the God of gods appeareth every one of them in Sion. 
Let us pray. 
VOUCHSAFE, we be seech Thee, O Lord, to strengthen and confirm all Thy faithful, and to lift them up more and more con tinually to heavenly desires ; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. 
'f. The Lord be with you ; 
R7. And with thy spirit. 
~f. Let us bless the Lord ; 
R7. Thanks be to God.
